---
layout: post
title:  "Introducing a new blog!"
date:   2020-05-14 23:34:56 +0530
category: personal
---

Hi all. This is a new blog post which is primarily meant to test how to go about writing new posts for this blog which I very
conveniently lifted off of some github repository. Regardless, this is an excellent light-weight theme, and to be honest I like
it so much it almost feels like I commissioned it. So I think the first thank you goes to the awesome creators of this beautiful 
theme, which I found out are a bunch (or possibly a lonewolf) web developer based out of Bangalore. So thank you!

Apart from the credits, this will also serve as a practise for formatting these posts using a code editor. For refernce, I am writing
this as a markdown file in VS Code and thus have no idea how this actually looks on the web. I'll try out a couple of markdown
commands to just make sure I got the hang of it.

# Headings
Under this, I would like to have multiple subheadings.
## Topic 1
So this should ideally be a subparagraph under the above heading.
## Topic 2
Second subtopic.
Trying to insert a link as [link](https://www.linkedin.com/in/pkjm). Heck I gotta say VS Code is beautiful. Even with markdown, it knows just the right type of syntax highlighting to help me out without making it look like a rainbow (*cough* *cough* eclipse.. *cough*).
## Topic 3
This is the last subheading.

I think this should suffice for a blog post. For all those unfortunate enough to have read this whole thing up until this point, you have my sincerest condolences and a genuine feeling of appreciation from the bottom of my heart. Now please dont do that again. Ciao.

-p